# Jeweled Lessons

One of the items that {{daimon.hero_nickname}} received, that fundamentally changed him, was learning about The Jewel of Enki - the giant Blue sapphire embedded within his chest.  

{{daimon.hero_nickname}} learned that jewels were created by Enki's greatest advisors, friends, and loved ones near the end of his life.

Their primary function was storing knowledge and teaching that knowledge to the next leaders of the clans.

It contains the knowledge of different martial styles.  What worked, what didn't, why to use a technique and when.  It taught how to think like a warrior, so that the jewel bearer would always be a formidable fighter. A protector. A guardian.

It also contains the techniques for wielding daimonic energy, for improving one's elemental affinities, and the consolidated knowledge of enchanting items with affinities into runic constructs.  That knowledge and understanding of countless sages and teachers, so the bearer would be a builder.  A guide, a leader.  A pillar from which others can stand.

Most of this stored information was static, consistent across generations, and could have been stored in something less priceless.  But the Jewels were special, and grew with each bearer.  So what else was stored?   The jewel bearer's memories and emotions.

The jewel's hidden purpose was to help the descendants become better leaders.   That they would have a wealth of experience to deal with most issues, either politically, personally, and or privately.

It stored everything the bearer experienced; all their most intense memories.   Moments of success, of victory, and of joy, but more importantly, instances of failure.   Instances of Loss, of Defeat, of Lies.   And especially Betrayal.  The new bearers experienced the full emotional pain of those instances.  Sometimes blinding, crippling pain and loss.

The creators of the jewels considered this the most important thing to remember.  And it's goal was two-fold.  First, it prepared the bearers that they should know, without a doubt, somewhere in the future, a loved one would betray them. For all great leaders of men, betrayal was the price of power.

And secondly, to learn how to forgive.  Yourself and others.  So they know how to carry on with life.

All to help the new jewel bearer grow, stronger than the last, so that someday, with hope, they wouldn't be needed at all.

And all that was required for their creation, was the sacrifice and soul of a loved one.
