# Jeweled Lessons

One of the things that {{daimon.hero_nickname}} found out, that fundamentally changed and shook him, was learning about The Jewel of Enki - the giant Blue sapphire embedded within his chest.  And it was one of the last remaining jewels of its kind still working after all the millennia past.

{{daimon.hero_nickname}} learned that jewels were created by Enki's greatest advisors, friends, and loved ones near the end of his life.  And their primary function was storing knowledge and teaching that knowledge to their descendants and the next leaders of the clans.

They contained the knowledge of different martial styles.  What worked, what didn't, why to use a technique and when.  It taught how to think like a warrior, so that the jewel bearer would always be a formidable fighter. A protector. A guardian.

It also contains the techniques for wielding daimonic or affinity energy, for improving one's elemental affinities, and the consolidated knowledge of enchanting items with affinities into runic constructs.  That knowledge and understanding of countless sages and teachers, was saved so the bearer would be a builder.  A guide, a leader.  A pillar from which others can stand.

Most of this stored information was static, consistent across generations, and could have been stored in something less priceless.  But Enki's Jewels were special, and they grew their knowledge and power with each bearer.  So what else was stored?   The jewel bearer's memories and emotions.

Enki's jewel contained a hidden purpose; to help the descendants become better leaders.   That they would have a wealth of experience, generations of knowledge, to deal with most issues, either politically, personally, and or privately.

It stored everything the bearer experienced; all their most intense memories.   Moments of success, of victory, and of joy, but more importantly, instances of failure.   Instances of Loss, of Defeat, of Lies.   And especially Betrayal.  The new bearers experienced the full emotional pain of those instances.  And sometimes, it was blinding, crippling pain and loss.  This wasn't a mistake.  The creators of the jewels considered this the most important thing to remember.  And it's goal was two-fold.  

First, to teach the jewel bearer to learn how to forgive.  Forgiving yourself and others.  To learn you and others are capable of making mistakes.  So they know how to carry on with life and not be trapped in the darkness of broken dreams.

And secondly, it prepared the bearers that they should know that somewhere in the future, without a doubt, a loved one would betray them.  Because for all great leaders of men, betrayal was the price of power.

For generations, the jewels were considered treasures beyond compare, coveted and kept safe, the knowledge within was hoarded, but their creation was not.   Because all that was required for the Jewel's creation, was the sacrifice and soul of a loved one.
