HTTP status codes are sometimes not sufficient to convey enough information about an error to be helpful.  While humans behind browsers can be informed about the nature of the problem with an API response body, non-human consumers of so-called "HTTP APIs" are usually not.

To address this, we have adopted a minimalistic common error formats for our applications, with elements taken from [RFC 7807](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807).



### **API Error JSON Response**
Here at Creative Drive, we are using a very simple customized JSON Error response for our APIs.    Additionally, For the sake of completeness, also included is the RFC-defined specification for handling error responses.

#### Our Error-defined response
``` json
{
    "errors": [
        {
            "message": "Incorrect email or password",
            "code": 401
        }
    ]
}
```

* `errors` is the Json object type, followed by an Json Array which contains the error details object.  
* `message` is the details of the error.  This would correspond to the `detail` section of [RFC 7807](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807).
* `code` is the status code that has been returned.
* The Content-type for all API responses (successful and error alike) is: `Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json; `

---

#### The RFC-defined response
The "Official" RFC-defined JSON Error response looks like thus:

``` json
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Content-Type: application/problem+json
Content-Language: en

{
  "type": "https://example.com/probs/out-of-credit",
  "title": "You do not have enough credit.",
  "detail": "Your current balance is 30, but that costs 50.",
  "instance": "/account/12345/msgs/abc",
  "balance": 30,
  "accounts": [
      "/account/12345",
      "/account/67890"
    ]
}
```

A JSON Error object can have the following members:

* "status" (number) - The HTTP status code ([RFC 7231](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231), Section 6) generated by the origin server for this occurrence of the problem.  In this example, `403 Forbidden`
* "type" (string) - A URI reference [RFC3986] that identifies the problem type.  This specification encourages that, when dereferenced, it provide human-readable documentation for the
problem type (e.g., using HTML.  When this member is not present, its value is assumed to be "about:blank".
* "title" (string) - A short, human-readable summary of the problem type.  It SHOULD NOT change from occurrence to occurrence of the problem, except for purposes of localization (e.g., using proactive content negotiation; see ([RFC 7231](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231), Section 3.4).
* "detail" (string) - A human-readable explanation specific to this occurrence of the problem.
* "instance" (string) - A URI reference that identifies the specific occurrence of the problem.  It may or may not yield further information if dereferenced.
* "balance" and "accounts" in the example above are EXTRA information that is useful to the user and/or application, and referred to as **Extension Members** as defined in the [RFC 7807](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807)
* The Content-type is defined as: `application/prolem+json` as defined in ([RFC spec 7807](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7807), section 6.1)

A good read on how other companies, such as Facebook, Spotify, and Google, handle error responses can be found here: https://blog.restcase.com/rest-api-error-handling-problem-details-response/
